# No assumption on the DGP of $\xi_{jt}$ 
After recovering ${\delta}_{jt}$ from the observed market share $s_{jt}$. We regress it on the product characteristics.

The **estimation equation** is
$$\delta_{jt}=x_{jt}\beta + p_{jt}\alpha+\xi_{jt}$$
where $x_j$ is the product characteristics, $p_j$ is the price, and $\xi_{jt}$ unobserved product characteristics. 

We can use the following moment conditions to estimate the parameters:
$$E(Z_{jt}'\xi_{jt})=0$$
where $Z_{jt}$ is the exogenous variable + instruments. 

The empirical moments condition is 
$$ \frac{1}{N}Z'\xi = 0$$ 
where $Z$ is $N \times J$ and $\xi$ is $N \times 1$.

# Impose AR(1) structure on $\xi_{jt}$

**Question**: why do we want to impose an AR(1) structure on the unobserved product characteristics $\xi_{jt}$?

Now, we assume that $\xi_{jt}$ follows an AR(1) process:
$$\xi_{jt} = \rho \xi_{j,t-1} + \omega_{jt}$$
where $\omega_{jt}$ is the innovation term (error term) that is uncorrelated with $x_{jt}$ and $p_{jt}$.

For $\delta_{jt}$ and $\delta_{jt-1}$, we have
$$\delta_{jt} = x_{jt}\beta + p_{jt}\alpha + \xi_{jt}=x_{jt}\beta + p_{jt}\alpha + \rho \xi_{j,t-1} + \omega_{jt}\ (1)$$
$$\rho \delta_{j,t-1} = \rho x_{j,t-1}\beta + \rho p_{j,t-1}\alpha + \rho\xi_{j,t-1}\ (2)$$
The new **estimation equation** (1)-(2) is
$$\delta_{j,t}-\rho \delta_{j,t-1} = \beta x_{jt} - \rho\beta x_{j,t-1} + \alpha p_{jt} - \rho\alpha p_{j,t-1} + \omega_{jt} $$
Thus the parameters we want to estimate is $\beta$, $\alpha$, and $\rho$.
This corresponds exactly to the model in blundellbond2000. 

We rewrite as 
$$ \delta_{j,t} = \pi_1 x_{jt} + \pi_2 x_{j,t-1} + \pi_3 p_{jt} + \pi_4 p_{j,t-1} + \pi_5 \delta_{j,t-1} +\omega_{jt}$$ 
where $\omega_{jt} \sim \text{MA}(0)$.
We have the restriction that
$$\pi_4/\pi_3 = \pi_2/\pi_1 = -\pi_5$$
which can be tested after the estimation or imposed in the estimation.

Now we can perform standard GMM without any additional instruments because $\omega_{jt}$ is orthogonal to
$$ z_{jt} =[x_{jt}, x_{j,t-1}, p_{jt}, p_{j,t-1}, \delta_{j,t-1}]$$

If we assume that only the price coefficient $\alpha \sim N(\alpha_0,\sigma^2)$$ is the random coefficient, for each $\sigma$, we get the gmm objective function value by minimizing the empircal counterpart of 
$$E[z_{jt}'\omega_{jt}]=E[z_{jt}'(\delta_{jt}-z_{jt}\pi)] =0$$
We can then find the $\sigma$ that minimizes the objective function value.

**Question**: Do we need extra instruments? If yes, what's the point of imposing the AR(1) structure?

Recall 
$$\xi_{jt} = \rho \xi_{j,t-1} + \omega_{jt}$$

If $\omega_{jt}$ is not orthogonal to $x_{jt}$ and $p_{jt}$, but orthogonal to some other instruments $Z_{jt}$, 

$$ E[Z'_{jt}(\xi_{jt}-\rho\xi_{j,t-1})]=0$$
$$ E\{Z'_{jt}[\delta_{jt}-x_{jt}\beta-p_{jt}\alpha-\rho(\delta_{j,t-1}-x_{j,t-1}\beta-p_{j,t-1}\alpha)]\}=0$$

**Question**: Previously we assume each year constitutes independent market. Mow we look at them from a panel perspective, which means that we impose some (dependence) structure on $\xi_{jt}$ from year to year.
Do we need panel where all products $j$ are observed consecutively. What if some $j$ are not observed in the two consecutive years?

# Simulation and Estimation
## Simulation
1. We **set** the true value of $\beta$, $\alpha$, $\rho$, and $\sigma$. 
2. Then we generate $\xi_{jt}$ which is correlated to $p_{jt}$ for example. (The correlation needs to be specified.) 
3. We generate $\xi_{jt+1}$ based on $\xi_{jt}$ and some innovation term $\omega_{jt+1}$. $\xi_{jt+1}$ is still correlated with $p_{jt+1}$.
4. We generate some instruments $Z_1$ for $\xi$, and some instruments $Z_2$ for $\omega$. **Question**: is it that by default, $Z_1$ should also be valid for $\omega$, but not the other way around?
4. To get the market share, we use 
$$ s_j=\int \frac{\exp(\delta_j+\sigma p_j)}{1+\sum_{j'}\exp(\delta_{j'}+\sigma p_{j'})} dF(\sigma)$$
where $\delta_j=x_j\beta+p_j\alpha+\xi_j$.

5. Then we have the observed market share $s_j$, the product characteristics $x_j$, and the price $p_j$ for each year. And we can pretend that we don't know the true value and estimate the paremeters $\beta$, $\alpha$, $\rho$, and $\sigma$.

## Estimation
For estimation, we can either
1. use $Z_1$ such that $E[Z_{jt+1}'\xi_{jt+1}]=0$
2. use $Z_1$ such that $E[Z_{jt+1}'\omega_{jt+1}]=0$
3. use $Z_2$ such that $E[Z_{jt+1}'\omega_{jt+1}]=0$

Compare the results from the three methods.

**Question**: But why? Is it easier to find instruments for $\omega$ in reality? If we can find $Z_1$ why bother using $E[Z_{jt+1}'\omega_{jt+1}]=0$ as the moment condition, rather than just $E[Z_{jt+1}'\xi_{jt+1}]=0$? It's only useful when we can't find $Z_1$ but can find $Z_2$?




